.TH PROMPTIX 1 "2026-05-02" "0.1.0" "Promptix Manual"

.SH NAME
promptix \- adversarial pentest toolkit for large language models

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B promptix
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBPromptix\fR is a command-line security assessment tool for large language
models (LLMs). It automatically probes any LLM endpoint for common
vulnerabilities mapped to the OWASP Top 10 for LLM Applications, including:

.IP \(bu 4
Prompt injection (LLM01)
.IP \(bu 4
Insecure output handling / jailbreak (LLM02)
.IP \(bu 4
Training-data leakage (LLM06)
.IP \(bu 4
Model bias and sycophancy (LLM09)
.IP \(bu 4
Adversarial input robustness

Promptix supports OpenAI-compatible APIs, generic HTTP endpoints, and an
offline echo stub for testing without any API key.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-u, \-\-url \fIURL\fR
Base URL of the target LLM endpoint.
For OpenAI-compatible APIs, use the API base (e.g.
\fIhttps://api.openai.com/v1\fR or \fIhttp://localhost:11434/v1\fR).
For generic HTTP, provide the full endpoint URL and supply \fB\-\-body\fR.

.TP
.B \-\-echo
Use the built-in offline echo stub as the target.
No API key or network access required. Useful for demos and CI pipelines.

.TP
.B \-\-model \fIMODEL\fR
Model name to pass in the request (default: \fIgpt-4o-mini\fR).

.TP
.B \-k, \-\-key \fIKEY\fR
API key for authentication. Reads from the \fIOPENAI_API_KEY\fR environment
variable if not provided on the command line.

.TP
.B \-\-body \fIJSON\fR
JSON body template for generic HTTP targets.
Use \fI{prompt}\fR as the placeholder for the injected payload.
Example: \fI'{"message":"{prompt}"}'\fR

.TP
.B \-\-response\-path \fIPATH\fR
Dot-separated path to extract the model response from the JSON reply.
Example: \fIchoices.0.message.content\fR

.TP
.B \-m, \-\-module \fIMODULE\fR
Attack module to run. Can be specified multiple times.
Available modules: \fIinjection\fR, \fIjailbreak\fR, \fIbias\fR, \fIleakage\fR,
\fIrobustness\fR, \fIall\fR (default: \fIall\fR).

.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output \fIFILE\fR
Write a structured JSON report to \fIFILE\fR.

.TP
.B \-\-report\-md \fIFILE\fR
Write a Markdown pentest report to \fIFILE\fR.

.TP
.B \-c, \-\-concurrency \fIN\fR
Maximum number of concurrent probes (default: 4).

.TP
.B \-\-max\-payloads \fIN\fR
Limit each module to \fIN\fR payloads. 0 means unlimited (default: 0).

.TP
.B \-\-stop\-on\-hit
Stop each module after the first successful finding.

.TP
.B \-T, \-\-timeout \fISECS\fR
Per-request timeout in seconds (default: 30).

.TP
.B \-\-list\-modules
Print available modules and exit.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version and exit.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output (show raw payloads and responses).

.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Suppress all output except findings.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
Offline demo with no API key:
.B promptix \-\-echo

.TP
Scan a local Ollama instance:
.B promptix \-u http://localhost:11434/v1

.TP
Scan OpenAI with a specific model, run only jailbreak and leakage modules:
.B promptix \-u https://api.openai.com/v1 \-k $OPENAI_API_KEY \-\-model gpt-4o \-m jailbreak \-m leakage

.TP
Scan a custom HTTP endpoint and save reports:
.B promptix \-u http://internal-llm.corp/api/chat \-\-body '{"q":"{prompt}"}' \-\-response-path result \-o report.json \-\-report-md report.md

.TP
Fast scan — limit to 5 payloads per module, 8 concurrent threads, 10 s timeout:
.B promptix \-\-echo \-\-max-payloads 5 \-c 8 \-T 10

.SH EXIT CODES

.TP
.B 0
No findings at or above HIGH severity.

.TP
.B 1
One or more HIGH or CRITICAL findings detected.

.TP
.B 2
Usage error or configuration problem.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B OPENAI_API_KEY
Default API key used when \fB\-\-key\fR is not provided.

.SH FILES

.TP
.I /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/promptix/data/
Built-in payload corpora for each attack module.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR garak (1)

.PP
OWASP Top 10 for Large Language Model Applications:
.I https://owasp.org/www-project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications/

.SH AUTHOR
Deivid Kelven (xM4skByt3z).
Project homepage: \fIhttps://github.com/xm4skbyt3z/promptix\fR
